# SAS-Programming-Capstone
Titanic Survivors-Machine Learning Algorithm

Report type with code
Final self research project using SAS programming using predictive machine learning algorithm. 

ABSTRACT
Big data can be classified as a large set of complex data that is either structured, semi-structured, or non-structured that is not easily processed by the human eye or traditional applications. There are four main types’ of big data analytics methods that are used most frequently in businesses today. Prescriptive analytics determines what actions should be taken and is lead to be one of the most valuable type of analysis involving rules and recommendations. Diagnostic analytics uses past performance to determine what happened and why usually in a dashboard format. Descriptive analytics uses real time incoming data and data mining is typically performed. Predictive analytics uses likely scenarios of what might happen and delivered as a predictive forecast.
	SAS predictive analytics allow the user to modify the data with ease by structuring the data set, transpose them, and aggregate values into representative modeling tables. The Royal Mail Ship (RMS) Titanic goes down in history as one of the most infamous shipwrecks which sank after hitting an iceberg to the bottom of the ocean on April 15, 1912. 1,502 people were killed out of the 2,224 passengers and crewmen. One of the biggest reasons led to believe was the insufficient amount of the lifeboats to support all 2,224 passengers was one of the largest factors with women, children, and upper-class passengers more likely to board first increasing survival rate. My goal is to analyze the given data set about the passengers and develop my own predictions whether a passenger survived or not by using a 0 for no or 1 for yes value for the survived variable.
